Averia Adhon-Sturmgeis is a half-elf, and current Queen over the [[The Dominion of Vallonde]].  Having been poised to take the throne since her birth, and having begun training under her predecessor, [[Oswyn Adhon]] starting at 5 years of age, Averia has spent her entire life dictated by the swirling world of politics.  However, unlike her father, Averia has had her political ideals and motives shaped primarily by the nobles of the court, rather than her father's more pure intentions.
### Background
Averia was born 23 years ago to Oswyn Adhon and his wife, Myra Sturmgeis.  Having been born directly into the role of successor to the throne, Averia had been groomed from a young age for her role in politics and the rule of the people.  Oswyn tried to conduct much of the training himself, having Averia come with him to important meetings, and having her schooled by those Adhon knew could provide succinct training.  However, after Adhon passed when Averia was only 7, the remainder of her training until she took the throne at age 16 would be done by the various nobles who sorely desired to take her place on the throne.

### Political Viewpoints
Having been largely shaped by the political elite in her fathers stead, Averia is staunchly isolationist.  Averia does not see a world where the citizens of Vallonde would have any need to leave the Vale, as the Dominion is nowhere close to suffering from a resource shortage of any kind.  Furthermore, she believes that even if there was a resource shortage, risking the entire population by opening the Zanula Caves to the outside world is a needless risk, as the odds of any resources existing undisturbed and in meaningful condition are essentially non-existent.

This hardline focus on keeping the Dominion sealed inside the vale has also led to an increase in cracking down on political dissidents.  While it is not illegal to voice opposition to the Queen's plan to keep the Dominion tightly sealed, ongoing protests in various parts of the Dominion have been known to have had local police and even members of the [[Cinderwatch]] arrest the "agitators".  This has only angered those who oppose Averia's rule, and an anti-royal faction has begun to form throughout various areas of the Dominion.

### Conflict With The Seekers
[[The Seekers of the Broken Circle]], a group of researchers and philosophers who reside at the [[Sapphire Sanctum]] have been a primary thorn in Averia's rule since the moment she took the throne.  The [[The Seekers of the Broken Circle|Seekers]] have been openly critical of the heavy emphasis on sealed borders, as the texts found at the Sanctum from before the Conflict highlight the resource rich landscape and wide diversity of life outside the Vale, which simply couldn't exist within the current Dominion Borders.  While not outright confrontational with the royalty, Seekers have been known to scuffle with members from both the [[Cinderwatch]], as well as the elite arcane faculty from [[Elhyrst Academy]], both of who seem to be working at least in part for the crown.

#### Primary Faction Goals (The Crown)
- Ensure the vale remains completely sealed
- If possible, remove [[The Seekers of the Broken Circle|the Seekers]] or cripple their reputation
- If possible, convert the [[Elhyrst Academy||Academy]] entirely under the control of the Crown, rather than tightly allied