Oswyn Adhon was an elf who was the founder and initial ruler of the [[The Dominion of Vallonde]],  establishing the eventual capital of Crawic a few months before the end of the [[Aetherial Conflict]].   Adhon helped establish a general order within the dominion, which allowed the creation of a new civilization from scratch; however, his background as a military man limited his abilities to help Vallonde develop in the immediate years after the conclusion of the conflict.

### Background
Not much is known about Oswyn Adhon's history.  It is taught in the various academies throughout Vallonde that Adhon was born during the latter stages of the [[Aetherial Conflict#*The Crystal Conflicts*|Crystal Conflicts]], and was raised during the tumultuous downfall of his birth nation.  Once Adhon grew up, he began to serve, joining the armed forces of his new local tribe.   While he was a decent military commander, he was best known for serving in a governence role, and had helped establish control in various conquere villages during the [[Aetherial Conflict#Tribalization|Tribalization]] era.

### Formation of Crawic
During the early stages of the [[Aetherial Conflict#*Natural Uprising*|Natural Uprising]], Adhon was instructed with setting up a medical camp to help treat injured soldiers, while also providing a refuge for innocent civilians who were not able to join the fight against the encroaching wildlife.  Adhon had known of the [[Vilcolla Vale]] from his time serving during the Tribalization period, as he had been informed by other members of his tribe of the location.  They had noted its remote and defensible terrain, but also its distinct lack of significant crystal deposits.  With the frontline now positioned in such a way that the vale was behind allied lines, Adhon used the remote location as the new operating medical and survival base--a base that he dubbed [[Crawic]].  Although originally being nothing more than a refuge and field hospital, the able-bodied inhabitants began to establish general serves, such as a small communal farm, basic fishing installations along the river, and basic housing for the inhabitants.  Despite the intense fighting outside the vale, Crawic was flourishing, and even began to have small colonization parties start small settlements outside the primary village boundaries.

### Establishment of the Dominion
Having sensed that the fight against the wildlife was inherently a losing one, and knowing that the vale would serve as a strong base of operations whilst mankind rebuilt, Adhon made the executive order to call all able bodied troops through the [[Zanula Caves]] and into the vale, before sealing the caves behind them.  However, due to Adhon's lack of actual authority in the command structure of the defense army, few bothered to listen to Adhon's command.  Despite leaving thousands of soldiers still outside the wall in a completely deadly scenario, Adhon retreated through the caves and sealed the tunnels behind him, leaving those outside the vale to their fate--a decision which Adhon claimed racked him with guilt until the end of his life.

### Growth of the Dominion
Over time, the village of Crawic became an establishment of several small villages.  Whilst initially remaining on the primary island, eventually settlements were growing all over the vale, leading to inter-village trade becoming increasingly important.   Crawic, as the initial hub, grew into the capital city of the empire, and began to encompass many of the initial colonization attempts into the city proper.  The growth of a large centralized population helped jumpstart the initial political system of Vallonde, which still exists today.  Adhon, knowing of the threats of the outside world, seeked to remain isolationist--he knew that the young country was still heavily recovering from the centuries of war that everyone had just been subjected to, and had no rush to return outside the vale to attempt to reclaim lost territory.  However, Adhon knew that expansion outside the vale would inherently become necessary, and so set the groundwork for the establishment of various groups (such as the [[Cinderwatch]]. or the spellcasters running [[Elhyrst Academy]]) .

### Succession
Adhon, nearing the end of his days, had a child with a powerful noblewoman from the politically inclined Sturmgeis family.  His child, a daughter named [[Averia Adhon-Sturmgeis]],  would serve as his successor, and would rule the Dominion in his place.  Adhon attempted to train Averia in how best to rule Vallonde, but died when she was only 7, leaving much of her training to be done by the various regents and political leaders who would serve until she came of age to take the throne.