### Background 

Founded 3 months after the end of the Ancient War, Elhyrst Academy is the only arcane school throughout the Dominion of Vallonde.  Founded by Hilda Cyn, the original purpose of the Academy was to defend the Dominion, in case of further incursion by old foes.  However, many years have passed since the founding of the academy, and its purpose no longer fits the one Cyn intended.  Elhyrst Academy is the only major institution in the Dominion that is not affiliated in any way with either the Royal Family or the central government.  Because of this, the Royal government is wary of the Academy, as the powerful mages that Elhyrst produces are seen as great potential threats.  However, no violence has ever broken out between the Academy and the royal troops.

In recent times, however, the political balance has shifted.  The Adhon family, fearing that the power they once had over the central government, are now increasingly concerned  that Elhyrst make attempt to usurp power from the royal family -- a fear not helped by the prevalence of high ranking mages from the academy that are actively in important positions of power throughout the Dominion.  The leaders at Elhyrst, meanwhile, were under the impression that the Adhon family was seeking to limit the potential growth of new mages at the academy, in an attempt to subjugate those with arcane gifts under the control of royal rule.  This unease between major powers has led to tense relations between the Academy and the rest of the Vallonde at large, although the Parliament in Crawic has managed to provide continual peace and cooperation between the two groups for the time being.

### Facility Breakdown
Most professors at Elhyrst are sorcerers, innate magical beings whose power comes from within.  Many of the sorcerers currently teaching at Elhyrst were some of the very first students to have ever gone to the Academy, being taught by Cyn herself before the conclusion of the [[Aetherial Conflict]].  However, the number of sorcerers within the Dominion have been reduced greatly, due to the mass extinction of them during said conflict.   Today, the Academy primarily trains wizards; unlike sorcerers, the power the new generation holds is not innate to the user; this does allow for the wizards to be more versatile, however, as they can learn as much as is possible from various sources.   As part of an old royal decree, some of the students produced by the Academy are pressed into service by the royal army; these students are often looked down upon, seen as freaks who go hide in a forest for 5-10 years.  However, this notion is typically debunked after the wizards overpower their non-magical colleagues

  

The Academy has three main schools of arcane teachings:  Thelios, Impetus, and Velaris.  Thelios, also known as the School of Defense, is the most basic school at the Academy.  These students are trained in defensive capabilities, enabling them to be great support troops in battle, or protective of fellow wizards during battle, while the others do the offensive fighting.   All new arrivals at the Academy start within Thelios, but can work up to the other two classes, depending on their abilities.  The second school is Impetus (the School of War).  This school focuses on fighting, predominantly the offensive side of battle.  Wizards in this school focus on damage spells, or things that can buff others abilities/weapons to increase the damage dealt in battle.  A good chunk of students who make it into Impetus are students who start off as normal fighters, but find out they have some arcane abilities down the line; they come to Elhyrst to refine those.  The final school is Velaris.  Velaris is a very secretive and experimental school of arcane teachings.  Unlike Impetus or Thelios, Velaris teaches its pupils things in the way of manipulation.  Those who enjoy illusions or lying excel in Velaris, as the basis of the school focuses on the manipulation of others to achieve personal goals.  Those exceptionally gifted in the power to manipulate others may find themselves going as far as necromancy, although this is something many people struggle to achieve.
 
Each student who arrives at the academy (of their own choice) must undergo a training test; this test helps the academy sort out who belongs in what group.   Some students may get wrongly sorted, so school changes are somewhat frequent, even throughout the school year.  Students who get recommended to the academy do not have to participate in the training test, as they are deemed worthy of one of the upper two classes already.  However, if a recommended student starts doing poorly, they can and will be demoted to Thelios.  Most students take upwards of 12-15 years to fully master  their training; however, most students are free to leave (“graduate”) after only 4, as it is not seen as necessary to go beyond 4 years worth of training.  

### Political/Social Standing
The academy’s social structure is largely based around the social standing of each class.  Impetus and Velaris hate each other, and the students from each class can often be seen insulting one another or fighting in the halls; however, both classes unite in belittling Thelios students.  Because magic is forbidden outside of classroom teachings at Elhyrst, the generally weaker Thelios students stand no chance against the higher ranked students.  Many of them complain to the Rieladl, the head of the Academy; however, she doesn't care, as she believes that it will successfully weed out those who are not worthy of being students at Elhyrst.

  
### Other Arcane Training
Aside from the major wizarding schools, there are small offshoots at Elhyrst.  On occasion, individuals who do possess  innate arcane ability (sorcerers) are found; once they arrive at the academy, they receive their own sorcerer master, and train independently from the wizard class structure.; this master trains their protege, or potentially 2-3 proteges at once.  However, it is usually one pupil per master.  Additionally, those who create a pact with a patron are trained in the exclusive warlock wing, where they learn the true history of their patron, and the powers that lie beyond what they thought they knew.  Lastly, the lowest level at the academy is the bardic college.  Those who possess arcane abilities, but aren’t very good at using them are sent to the bardic school to test their ability with storytelling and performance arts.  Should they do well, they are trained in the bardic arts;  many who attend the bardic college at Elhyrst eventually become politicians or famous actors, known throughout the dominion for their ability to perform at the Korrivik theatre.