#### General Information
Hayminster is a large village located west of [[Cymeia Lake]].  With the surrounding area consisting of primarily fertile farmland, Hayminster grew as the primary village that the local farmers use to conduct both local and national business.  As the village grew in national importance due to the trade of produce and meat across the empire, the village became more well-rounded, and is now home to individuals across several professions/industries.
#### Important Locations
- **Gabizar Market** — a major trading market, Gabizar is located at the heart of the village.  It consists of several permanent buildings that host different trading companies, as well as several small booths/tents that traveling merchants set up to peddle goods as each time they come to town.
- **The Healing Herb Garden** — the name of a small business located on the village outskirts; named after the actual garden kept and maintained behind the business, Healing Herb Garden often sells various herbal and medicinal remedies, and is also a big supplier of important concoctions/potions to the [[Cinderwatch]].  
- **The Granary District** — the primary storage location of important crops.  To maintain easier distribution and sale of crops (and animal products), the local farmers sell their product to the management at the Granary District, who then resells the product across the empire.  Although it could be considered that the management can sell the product at a significantly higher price than what they give the individual farmers, the farmers prefer this system, as they do not have to directly pay for the cost of transporting and protecting shipments of materials across the empire.  Additionally, due to the ongoing support of the farmers with the village leadership, the rates provided to the farmers are rather fair compared to what could happen.
- **The Well of Secrets** — A mysterious, ancient well located on the outskirts of Hayminster. It's said to be where local farmers go to pray for good harvests, but rumors abound about its true nature.
#### Political Affiliation/Status
Hayminster is rather indifferent to imperial rule.  Due to not being under direct rule of those who report to the crown, it is definitely easier to find people who voice their displeasure with certain policies of the [[Averia Adhon-Sturmgeis|Queen]], but that is not to say there is open rebellion/dissent amongst the population.  However, due to their proximity to the [[Zanula Caves]] (compared to other villages/cities), most of the population in Hayminster supports the Queen in her opposition to any attempts to reopen a passage to the outer world.