> “War does not determine who is right – only who is left”
> \- Bertrand Russell


The Aetherial Conflict is an collective term for a long-running set of wars,  conflicts, and other-worldly events that stemmed from the over-reliance and depletion of the natural reserves of [[Aether Crystals| Aether Crystals]], which culminated in what little remained of society retreating into the [[Vilcolla Vale]].   Much of the information about the conflict has been lost to time outside the [[Vilcolla Vale |Vale]], but what little is known can be summarized into three distinct sections: the Crystal Conflicts, Tribalization, and the Natural Uprising.
 
### *The Crystal Conflicts*
The start of the Aetherial Conflict stems from the very resource the entire series of events is named after--[[Aether Crystals]]. For many years prior to the conflict, civilizations across the world utilized Aether Crystals as a power source; the small crystals were surprisingly easy to interface with, allowing for rapid industrialization throughout what once was a purely agricultural society.  The rapid growth of society led to a general population boom, which in turn required more and more crystals to power the increasing amount of machinery.   However, despite being entirely renewable, crystals would take many years to "recharge" by absorbing the latent aether energy in the air around natural deposits.

The world soon realized that there was effectively a limited amount of crystals that could be in circulation at any given time.  While there were attempts by various political parties and governments throughout the world to try to ration and limit the use of crystals, each country soon realized that their best bet was to find and entirely claim deposits for their own, as this could ensure a steady (if not slow) supply of Aether energy to keep everything running.

Starting about 400 years before the founding of [[The Dominion of Vallonde|Vallonde]], the initial battles of the *Crystal Conflicts* were waged amongst a few small countries, whose names have been lost to time.   What few records and stories remain of this era tell a tale of massive land, naval, and air battles, as completely destroying an enemy nation would artificially solve the resource shortage surrounding the crystals; furthermore, each country new that the enemy would provided the conquered no mercy, so there was no need to hold back.  This era also saw lots of political betrayals and allegiances change rapidly; countries who believed they could position themselves better to control crystal deposits or important strategic land positions were often swayed to betray allies in exchange for more land; land which, more often than not, was taken by their new allies after they too were swayed.

### *Tribalization*
The Crystal Conflicts went on (at least in part) for approximately 260 years, although the bulk of the fighting took place in the last 120 years of that span.  With the scale of the conflict increasing year after year, countries began to completely disintegrate, leaving behind multitudes of villages to fend for themselves.  Initially, these orphaned villages were treated in a similar fashion to larger countries, with various groups trying to sway villages to attack each other in exchange for various promises and resources.  However, as the last remaining countries began to dissolve, their standing armies realized that there would no longer be any reinforcements or resupplies, leaving the armies to fend for themselves as their own individual communities.  No longer bound by any true country or calling, large armies began to break apart into small sects, and would take up residency in local abandoned villages.

This era of the conflict would be called the *Tribalization*, which saw the small skirmishes continue on and off between local tribes for several decades.  While there was still a small usage of crystals at this point, the large scale use of the crystals had largely diminished due to the overall lack of industrialization in the small villages and hamlets that each "tribe" called home.  Despite this, the tribes continued to fight over the known deposits, as the potential physical and political power that the deposit controlled could wield was extremely enticing.

The later stages of the *Tribalization* saw new countries begin to emerge, either through tribal conquest and expansion, or villages unifying under a common banner.  While this was a step towards potentially rebuilding society, the amount of controlled territory was trifle in comparison to the empires that had started the Aetherial Conflict, and the new countries had none of the established stability that the old world empires had before the conflict began.

These countries would fight the last of the remaining battles of civilization fighting over a previously undiscovered crystal deposit.  This deposit, known in legends as the "Varukai" deposit, could power an entire pre-conflict civilization by itself for several years, which would provide time for the other sources to slowly recharge to a usable state.   The villages closest to Varukai began relocating closer to the deposit, eager to stake their claim, while the more remote villages took advantage of the situation and began claiming the abandoned territory to expand their power base.  Unbeknownst to anyone involved in these final battles, these conflicts would set the stage for the final era of the Aetherial Conflict, and effectively end civilization throughout the world.

### *Natural Uprising*
The Natural Uprising (known more commonly as the *Orlynthae*) is the name given to the set of events that ended the Aetherial Conflict.  Due to the large depopulation of the world over the course of the entire Conflict, as well as the increasing reduction in use of Aether Crystals in any significant facet of everyday life, raw Aether energy became increasingly abundant.  Due to this, as well as due to the various groups no longer spending effort controlling the local wildlife, various beasts and other animals began to harness the aether energy themselves, providing these beasts with untold raw power.  With mankind preoccupied with controlling Varukai, the beasts grew unchecked and began attacking defenseless encampments.  The tribes, seeing their population attacked from an outside force, slowly began to unify under one banner and repulse the beasts.  While initially successful, the effort proved to be a futile one, as the emergence of the winged beasts known as [[Lynthar]] were too much to fight against with the remaining weapons and manpower than mankind had.

[[Oswyn Adhon]], founder of [[The Dominion of Vallonde|Vallonde]], served during the end of the *Tribalization* period, as well as during the Natural Uprising.  Being in charge of protecting the innocent and injured, he had established the medical camp of [[Crawic]] inside the Vilcolla Vale, as the area inside the Vale was protected by large, impassible mountain terrain.  As the battle against the beasts became increasingly clear that there was little to no chance for mankind to repel the beasts, Adhon took what remaining non-combatants that he could through the caves into the Vale, and called for a final retreat.  Due to concerns over the Vale being breached through the cave early, Adhon prematurely sealed the cave entrance, leaving many soldiers outside the Vale to die.  While Adhon suffers from extreme guilt over his actions that day, the camp of Crawic would eventually grow into the [[The Dominion of Vallonde]], and his position for his empire inside the vale has kept them safe from any incursions from the Orlynthae.