Aether crystals are a valuable mineral that could be found in various formations throughout the world outside the valley prior to the [[Aetherial Conflict]].  A few small formations have been found within the various mines within the valley, but in quantities far smaller than those which spurred on the various wars that comprised the Conflict.  

### General Usage
Aether crystals are known to inherently contain a source of energy that powered pre-Conflict machines and technology.  Due to the Conflict, much of the remaining technology that requires Aether crystal power is relegated to that of the Royal Family, and even then, is only used in ceremonial or decorative roles.  There are not any general use cases for real Aether crystals for everyday use-cases for the general public at current time within the [[The Dominion of Vallonde|Dominion]].  

The other use case for Aether crystals is in medical practices.   While much research has been lost due to the Conflict, it was believed pre-Conflict that the various types of Aether crystal could be used to help heal various ailments and injuries.  Many Aether crystals are currently in the hands of the doctors and other medical researchers at the medical institutions in Crawic, as they try to replicate the knowledge that physicians had prior to the war.  

### Synthetic Crystals
While genuine Aether crystals are a rare, valuable commodity amongst the general population of Vallonde, synthetic crystals have become increasingly common throughout the villages.  Synthetic crystals generally provide less energy supply than a raw crystal, but through various refining and recycling processes, can easily be "recharged".  This had made it easier to create technology that needs less raw power, but needs a constant source providing the small amount of energy required.  The primary place where this new technology has been found is indoor lighting, replacing the old torches in sconces throughout buildings in Crawic.  Research into synthetic Aether crystals has begun, but has been rather limited due to the largely unknown nature of the medicinal application of Aether crystals in medicine practices.