The Sapphire Sanctum was originally discovered a few years prior to the establishment of the Dominion, as troops scouted the [[Vilcolla Vale |vale]] for useful resources.  An abandoned mansion located at the foot of the northeastern mountain range, troops initially deemed the structure as unimportant due to poor strategic location,  as well as having no physical resources, the structure lay abandoned until a few years into the reign of [[Oswyn Adhon]].

The modern day operation of the Sanctum was initially started by a few political/academic outcasts from the capital city of Crawic.  Upset with how [[Oswyn Adhon|Adhon]]  was attempting to portray the foundation of the new kingdom (leadership had not yet claimed the title of Dominion), the group set out to the secluded structure, hoping to turn it into a general safehouse outside the reach of the crown.  Upon exploring the structure further, the new arrivals realized that the building was home to treasure troves of undiscovered literature and, seemingly, research material.  Astonished by the discovery of the amount of material, as well as the age of the various books/equipment, the group realized that this facility was originally created by what they could only describe as an advanced ancient civilization, who had since ceased to exist.  To protect the contents of the library from decay, as well as being controlled/destroyed by the current government, the new arrivals started the construction of [[Burga Keep]] to surround the structure.  The academic leaders amongst the group created a new order to start studying the various tomes found within, as well as recruit others to join the cause of protecting the ancient knowledge--this group is now known as the [[The Seekers of the Broken Circle|Seekers]].
### Defining Traits

- **Goddess(?) Statues** - One of defining traits of the structure, behind the sanctum are two large statues depicting two different women.  Each statue stands at approximately 30 feet tall; originally, the group thought that the upper bodies were simply carved into the rock face of the mountain below, but after reaching the large courtyard behind the sanctum, discovered the statues were actually designed in full, with inscriptions carved into the pedestal of each statue.  These inscriptions have mostly worn off, although research has been ongoing into ways of translating what limited text remains.  Each statue wears a giant blue gemstone (presumed to be sapphire, although efforts to scale the statues to identify the stone have not been made) as a ceremonial pendant.  It is these gemstones which inspired the new name of the structure.  The statue on the left holds a large spear/staff vertically in the right hand, while the statue on the left holds a book in the left hand, while gesturing out with the right.  The meaning of these statues remains unknown to this day.
-  **Symbolic Circle** - Found just outside the primary entrance to the sanctum, a large, engraved circle-like symbol is found in the courtyard.  While the general design is still primarily intact, there are several small pieces of the circle which have been broken out, leaving areas where the pattern is incomplete.  Of significant note, the "top" of the circle (closest to the mansion doors) has a significant portion of the outer ring seemingly removed intentionally, rather than being a subject of age and erosion.  It is this circle that is the namesake of the [[The Seekers of the Broken Circle|Seekers]]. 
- **Divine Tree** - Found in the ruins of the west wing, the Divine Tree is a large, relatively thin tree that has rooted itself solidly within the dilapidated greenhouse.  For what purpose the tree was originally planted inside the greenhouse has yet to be determined, but the tall tree serves as a signifying landmark for the structure as a whole.  The bright blue leaves, located primarily at the top of the tree, seem to glow faintly under moonlight, giving the tree a distinct aura of reverance.
